What is Overriding?
Declaring a method in sub class which is already present in parent class is called overriding.
The purpose of Method Overriding is, the child class can have its own specific implementation.

How can it be achieved?
we need to follow the rules of overriding method
we must have same signature as the overridden one.
 (method name and data types of the arguments and their  sequence should exactly match.)
The return type should be the same
The access level cannot be more restrictive than the overridden method’s access level.
we can increase the visibility but not decrease

  What can we override?
 Only inherited methods can be overridden.
 Because overriding happens when a subclass re-implements a method which is inherited from a superclass

And what we cannot override?
If a method cannot be inherited then it cannot be overridden.
Constructors do not participate in inheritance,therefore, they cannot be overridden.
private methods cannot be overridden.Since private methods are not visible outside the class,not inherited
Final methods cannot be overridden.final keyword is for that purpose not to modify
A method declared static cannot be overridden.
We can declare static methods with the same signature in the subclass,
but it is not considered overriding this is known as method hiding or re declaring
Main method cannot be overridden.because a static method cannot be overridden.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Can we override static method in Java?
No, you cannot override static method in Java because they are resolved and bonded during compile time.
Since overriding is a run-time activity and if a method call is already resolved at compile time
then it will not take place and that's why its not possible to override static method in Java.
But, you can define another static method of same signature in sub class,
this is known as method hiding. Actual method called will depends upon the type of class
and not on type of object as its the case with overriding.

8) Can you prevent overriding a method without using final modifier?
Yes, there are some funky ways to prevent method overriding in Java.
Though final modifier is only for that purpose you can use private keyword to prevent method overriding.
How? If you remember correctly, in order to override a method, the class must be extensible.
If you make the constructor of parent class private then its not possible to extend that class
because its constructor will not be accessible in sub class,
which is automatically invoked by sub class constructor, hence its not possible to override any method
from that class. This technique is used in Singleton design pattern, where constructor is purposefully
made private and a static getInstance() method is provided to access singleton instance.

 Can we override a private method in Java?
No, you cannot override private method in Java. Since private methods are not visible outside the class,
 they are not available in sub-class hence they cannot be overridden.

 By the way, how about overriding a private method inside an Inner class? Is it possible?
Can we change argument list of overridden method?
No, you cannot change the argument list of overridden method in Java.
An overriding method must have same signature as original method.
Only return type can be changed that to only to sub type of return type of original method.

12) Can we change return type of method in subclass while overriding?
No, you cannot change the return type of method during overriding.
It would be violation of rules of overriding.

How do you call super class version of an overriding method in sub class?
You can call it using super keyword. For example if you have a method calculate()
in both parent and child class then from child class you can invoke parent class method
calculate() as super.calculate(). It's very similar to calling super class constructor from sub class

Can we override a non-static method as static in Java?
No, its not possible to define a non-static method of same name as static method in parent class,
its compile time error in Java.

Can we override constructor in Java?
No, you cannot override constructor in Java because they are not inherited.

Can we override final method in Java?
No, you cannot override final method in Java. Trying to override final method in subclass will result
in compile time error. Actually making a method final is signal to all developer that
this method is not for inheritance and it should be use in its present form.
 You generally make a method final due to security reasons
 Abstract methods must be overridden by the first concrete (non-abstract) subclass.
---------------------------------------








