Constructors in Java

Constructors are used to initialize the object’s state.
It can be used to set initial values for object attributes.
Like methods, a constructor also contains collection of statements(i.e. instructions)
that are executed at time of Object creation.

Need of Constructor
Think of a Box. If we talk about a box class then it will have some class variables
(say length, breadth, and height). But when it comes to creating its object
(i.e Box will now exist in computer’s memory), then can a box be there with no value defined for its dimensions.
The answer is no.So constructors are used to assign values to the class variables at the time of object creation,
either explicitly done by the programmer or by Java itself (default constructor).

When is a Constructor called ?
Each time an object is created using new() keyword at least one constructor (it could be default constructor)
is invoked to assign initial values to the data members of the same class.
A constructor is invoked at the time of object or instance creation.

Rules for writing Constructor:
Constructor(s) of a class must have same name as the class name in which it resides.
A constructor in Java can not be abstract, final, static and Synchronized.
Access modifiers can be used in constructor declaration to control its access
i.e which other class can call the constructor.

Does constructor return any value?
There are no “return value” statements in constructor,
but constructor returns current class instance. We can write ‘return’ inside a constructor.

Types of constructor
There are two type of constructor in Java:

1-No-argument constructor: A constructor that has no parameter is known as default constructor.
If we don’t define a constructor in a class, then compiler creates default constructor(with no arguments)
for the class. And if we write a constructor with arguments or no-arguments then the compiler
does not create a default constructor.
Default constructor provides the default values to the object like 0, null, etc. depending on the type.

2-Parameterized Constructor: A constructor that has parameters is known as parameterized constructor.
If we want to initialize fields of the class with your own values, then use a parameterized constructor.

Constructor Overloading

Like methods, we can overload constructors for creating objects in different ways.
Compiler differentiates constructors on the basis of numbers of parameters,
types of the parameters and order of the parameters.

How constructors are different from methods in Java?

1-Constructor(s) must have the same name as the class within which it defined while it is not necessary
for the method in java.
2-Constructor(s) do not return any type while method(s) have the return type or void if does not return any value.
3-Constructor is called only once at the time of Object creation while method(s) can be called any numbers of time.
